                            French man named Joseph took care of the
body while Mary and loved ones bored
their precious loss.
Last night they buried the rose in the
garden. The fragrance of sorrow hung
thick in the air. Satan was breathing a
sigh of relief. All angels were silently
bearing their grief. God knew that his
son would arise in great power.
But for now, he was waiting and counting
the hours.
Mary and Martha spent the third morning
spices and watch for sunrise.
The disciples were hiding, defeated and
grieving, too distraught to remember
Christ said he would rise.
[Music]
>> The soldiers were sleeping outside of
the grave, unaware that their prisoner
was stirring in stir.
The stone rolled away. Jesus from the
darkness. The dawning of hope had
finally arrived.
This morning the rose blooms in the
garden. The fragrance of victory still
fills the air. Last night there was
weeping with no consolation. But this
morning rejoicing in the God of
salvation. Today there is hope in the
morning light.
What a difference God made between now
and last night.
No matter how hopeless and final the
night, it has to give way to the sun of
your
son of your light.
This morning the rose blooms in the
garden. The fragrance of victory still
fills the air. Last night there was
weeping with no consolation. But this
morning rejoicing in the God of
salvation.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
I love
you.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Hallelujah.
Hallelujah.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
Heat.
Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Yeah.
Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Yeah.
Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Heat.
Well, we're glad you're here for church
tonight. Let's stand together to sing in
your song book, page 292, 292. We'll
stand to sing Never Alone page number
292.
Sing the first and the last verse.
I've seen the binding.
I've heard the thunder ro.
I've heard the voice of myior
pinning me still to die.
He promised never to leave me. Never to
leave me alone.
No. Never alone.
No. Never alone.
He promised never to leave me. He made
me for his own.
No. Never alone.
Never alone.
He promised never to leave me, never to
leave me alone.
He died on Calvary mountain for me in
his side. For me, the mountain
for meth
glory
seated upon his throne. He promised
never to leave me, never to leave me
alone.
God never alone.
Never alone.
He promised never to leave. He faith
before his own.
No alone.
No. Never alone.
He promised never to leave me. Never to
leave me alone.
>> Well, good. God bless you. That's a good
song for Wednesday night, isn't it?
Ushers, come if you will. And if you're
visiting tonight for the first time or
the first time in a long time, thank you
so much for coming, being a part of the
service tonight. And we're going to ask
all of our guests to be seated, please.
And so, if you're visiting tonight, go
ahead and be seated. And we're going to
give you a visitor's card. You can fill
it out, place it in the offering plate
as it does go by, and we would
appreciate that so very, very much. And
thank you for being here for a Wednesday
night Bible study. We're so glad that
you are here. We're going to go ahead
and dismiss the patch the pirate. God
bless you and take off if you will.
That's a wonderful blessing. Amen.
Thank you. Be seated if you will. Let me
just read you a couple of things I think
is really really neat. And so for the
Tuesday night soulwinning uh there was
six people bowed their heart and
received Christ as savior and we thank
the Lord for that. Let me tell you
what's happening in our public school
ministries with of course brother Luke
Galloway heading that up doing a
tremendously tremendously good job. Now
uh another doors open and so we'll be in
four public schools and so we thank the
Lord for that. We started with one and
then it grew and it grew now in four
public schools and that's a blessing of
course in the public school uh that took
place today 48 in attendance and there
was 10 workers that helped out three
people were saved and two visitors with
the new public school of course that we
have it's going to be of course every
Tuesday 4:00 beginning ending at 5:30
okay 4:00 beginning other words you need
to be here at 4:00 and we really need
workers okay we need workers. And so if
you can go in, the program is set, but
just to be there to help out would be
great. I need at least uh two two men
and two ladies to be able to help out.
Now, that's on Tuesday. If you can't
help out every Tuesday, that's fine.
That's understandable.
Okay? And so, but that's on Tuesdays.
That's 4:00 to 5:30. Uh if if you do
volunteer and you do not have a child
background check, we can help you to get
that uh just very quickly. And so, but
if you could help out, that's 4:00 to
5:30 on Tuesdays. Uh, I need two ladies
and two men. Could you raise your hand
on that, please, real quick? Two men,
two ladies that could help out. Okay,
Brother Moran, thank you for that.
Anybody else that could help out? We
really need to get adult supervision
there to be able to help out. All right,
there's another man. How about some
ladies? Could we have two ladies that
could help out? Don't scratch your head.
I'll call on you. All right. And uh All
right. any two ladies that could help
out. All right, think about that if you
will. It's a great opportunity to be
able to go into the public school. Did I
miss anybody up there that raised your
hand? I'm sorry. I didn't mean to ignore
the balcony. All right. Okay. All right.
Okay. So, be mindful about that and see
Luke if you would please or see myself
or one of the staff men and we would be
able to connect you up with that and
that would be great. Okay. And so, that
is on Tuesdays. Again, you pray about it
if you can't help. That's 4 o'clock uh
beginning here, just coming here. And of
course, they'll leave and the Bible club
starts at at 4:30, ends over at 5:30.
Again, two men and two ladies and that
would be absolutely fantastic if we
could have some extra help. Thank you
for bringing the towels in. Appreciate
that. We hit the 40 towel marker. And so
if you do have extra towels, I know my
wife and I, we went through, I think we
counted nine that we brought in this
morning. And there's only two of us now
living at home. And we just didn't think
we needed all the towels hanging up
everywhere or in the closet or whatever.
And so, uh, if you do have extra towels,
you can turn those in at guest services.
And we're shooting for 20 baptisms, of
course, this weekend. And so you pray
for that if you will. That would be
great. Don't forget, of course, the big
day coming up. That's October 5. And we
have handouts to be able to give out and
you don't want to miss, okay? And if we
could have these fellas to bring them up
uh from the back there. And this is of
course for the big day. It's going to be
a great great day. You can dress
old-fashioned all day long if you so
wish. Now, if you don't have
old-fashioned uh garments to be able to
wear anything like that, then dress
normal. There's going to be a lot of
normally dressed people coming to
church. Okay? So, if you don't have the
western wear, you don't have the
oldfashioned wear, then that's fine, and
that's that's okay. All right? We want
to give you at least one a piece, and
we're going to make others available. Uh
because we we're going to pass out these
by the masses on Saturday, but we want
you to take at least one and uh be able
to get as many as you want off the
counter back there. Everybody ought to
invite. You have a friend somewhere. You
have friends somewhere. You got a
neighbor somewhere. You got a relative
somewhere, you got an employee
somewhere, you got an employer
somewhere, and you can invite people to
be able to come. Also, bring, if you
will, please, uh, potato salad and
either two dozen cookies or two dozen
brownies. If you could do that, that
would be a tremendously big big help.
Now, uh, in the evening service, we will
have uh, that which is the dress
competition as we always do when we have
a dress up type of Sunday that's of a
different caliber. And there'll be a
gift that's given away to you. And so be
mindful about that. Even if you can't
dress up for the Sunday AM, you can
dress up for the Sunday PM. And be kind
to those that are visiting. Okay? If
you're used to sitting in a certain spot
and you come in and somebody's sitting
in your spot, do not do not give a ugly
face. Do not start jumping up and down.
Do not say something that's unkind. You
welcome them. Thank them for coming. And
do not say thank you for coming and
sitting in my seat. Do not do that.
Okay? Uh you be kind, you be cordial,
and you uh are thankful for everybody
that does come. And that is great.
Follow-up list. If you did sign up
people, follow-up list is in the lobby
area. Everybody who signed up under your
name is in the lobby area. You can pick
up a copy of your sign up list out there
on the table to be able to call them.
And if you're going to call somebody, I
would not call them and say, "I'm just
calling to see if you're still coming."
No, I wouldn't do that. I say, "Look, I
remember you signed up for big day. I'm
calling you in advance, thanking you for
coming." And it's going to start at 9:45
and of course the main service at 10:45.
We want you to come and it's going to be
a great great day. And so, please be
mindful about that. I'm excited about
all the ones that the pioneers are
signing up. One pioneer.
Yeah. I'm excited. You know, every time
you hear your name being called, you
know, it it'd be good to be excited
about it. I We'll have a flashback here.
I'm excited about all the ones that the
pioneers are signing up. There you go.
And I'm excited also for the
homesteaders and all the ones that you
are signing up. And so, you be mindful
about that. And uh be sure to get those
uh follow-up sheets out there to be able
to follow up. Now, this Saturday is all
in Saturday. If you're here tonight,
come Saturday. Okay? If you're here
tonight, come Saturday. Okay? It's all
in Saturday, be here. That'll be at
10:00 right here uh in the auditorium.
We average about 120 to 140 depending uh
on the Saturday that we'll be here. And
I want you to come be a part of that.
We're going to go out and uh and
depending on of course uh how we are
trying to regulate places to go. We may
take a bus or we may just have you drive
cars. But we'll hit an area together and
just passing out flyers. Passing out
flyers. Now we'll also for those of us
that is used to going out and talking to
people about Christ, we'll give the plan
of salvation to people that we come into
contact with. We'll give the gospel. But
for those uh that are here, we want
everybody to have a part. And so we'll
pass out flyers. You'll be teamed up
with someone. You'll have a great time.
Be a great time of fellowship. And we'll
enjoy that. That's Saturday morning at
10 a.m. all in Saturday. So try and come
be a part of that. Of course, the
offering tonight is going to go towards
the ladies conference. The ladies
conference. You can text to give LC and
be a part of that. And of course that's
a ladies conference coming up very very
soon. And so you be mindful about that.
And u you know uh Ariel went home today
and we thank the Lord for that. Of
course this is the the baby the newborn
for Jeremiah and Elizabeth Fenton and
got out of the hospital today. And so we
thank the Lord for that. Heading home.
Hopefully nothing else will take place
and we'll be able to stay at home with
mom and daddy and uh be a part of course
of the family. And so we're so grateful
about God answering prayer. God
answering prayer. And God did certainly
do that on her behalf. I do want to
mention and brother Bell may mention
this as well. Uh I went up to see uh
again with uh brother Ray Adams and uh
he asked me to come up and anoint him
with oil and pray. And so we did spent
some time with he and his dear family
that was gathered in the room. He has
fluid around the lungs and the heart.
Now, we don't think it's a heart
condition according to what he's being
told at this point, but it is very
painful. There's been several times I've
had fluid around the lungs, and can I
tell you that is painful. It's a sharp
sharp abiding pain, and he has that. And
he has it also around the heart. So,
they're giving him a medicine to be able
to help to relieve that fluid around
those two organs. And so, you pray if
you will. and I know that he would
appreciate that so very very much.
Brother Bell.
>> Alrighty. This is the Kobach family.
This is our missionaries to the uh from
Hungary and they reached the European
countries. And it writes, "The year 2025
brought a very busy summer into our
lives with lots of exiting developments
witnessing and salvations both in and
outside of prison. In July, the Lord
allowed us to visit in the country of
Spain. As we visited churches, we had
some wonderful experiences with the
local Christians. Their friendship and
hospitality really blessed our heart. We
searched and asked just to realize that
no nationwide soulwinning prison
ministry operates in this beautiful
country. While we are excited about the
European countries where Rock of Ages
Ministry is already established, the
Lord began to burden our hearts for the
ones where inmates serve time in
complete spiritual darkness. Our work of
preaching and doing the work of an
evangelist and local churches continues.
As we searched a church in Hungary and
drove in the middle of nowhere at night,
we drove by a motorcyclist who suffered
a single vehicle accident shortly before
our arrival to the scene. By God's
grace, Aila was not injured seriously
and we were able to help uh to call help
quickly. Throughout the ordeal, I was
able to witness to him. Please pray for
his salvation. In August, we were able
to visit our ministry partners in
Ukraine. We had a good time with our
friends and received very encouraging
reports of the work in the prison there.
Please pray with us that the Prince of
Peace would bring calm to this part of
the world. Also, in August, in one of
our Hungarian prisons, three inmates got
saved as we ministered to them. On the
family side, all three of our kids had a
busy and productive summer. Nelly
traveled the western part of the US with
the West Coast Baptist College tour
group and enjoyed the privilege of
leading four girls to Christ while
visiting a Christian camp. Mark helped
with VBS at his local church and loved
serving the Lord with his trumpet.
Daniel was able to come with us to Spain
and made some new Christian friends.
Please pray with us regarding our future
plans. Just this year, since January,
the US dollar lost about 11% of its
buying power. As our gradually expanding
ministry requires more resources, we are
planning on spending most of 2026 in the
US to increase our support base. Our
current state side vehicle is a 2011
model with high miles. So, please
consider uh praying that we can find a a
vehicle driving many miles for the Lord.
We're looking to purchase in the 10 to
15,000 price range. And again, this is
the Kovac family. This is our
missionaries in Hungary. The prayer
request for tonight, uh Lucas Fenton had
the uh repaired the cleft in his mouth.
All went well and will remain in the
hospital overnight. Also, baby Ariel, as
mentioned, is home from the hospital.
Praise the Lord for that. And then,
Brother Adams, as mentioned, is in the
hospital with chest pains. There's fluid
around his heart and they are draining
it currently and he still has
congestion. Brother Eric Sandoval and
his family, please pray for them with
the passing of their grandfather, Oliver
Flores. Also, Brother Powers, he fell
and injured his shoulder and has surgery
on Tuesday to repair the the rotator
cuff. Miss Winona Brent is at home
recovering from heart surgery. Pray for
physical strength and swift healing.
Brother Palmore, Archie Palmore is in
the hospital. He's in a lot of pain,
very weak. He's recovering from the hip
surgery and the dialysis is going well.
So, that's a praise and uh pray that he
will continue to improve. He'll be going
to rehab possibly at the end of the
week. And then Miss Suzanne Mason, she
was released from the hospital. So, we
praise God for that. Is now back in
rehab, still having problems with her
stomach and the autoimmune skin disease.
Miss Melissa Lap, her health is still
slowly improving. uh please continue to
pray the disability will be granted and
God would provide the finances for the
special therapy that she's having. And
then Doug Trench will have an upcoming
surgery on October 14th for ongoing
bladder issues. The ministry of the week
is the Spanish Family Conference. This
is brother Gilbert Fernandez as well as
the Spanish department. So let's go to
the Lord in prayer. Dear Father, thank
you for the opportunity to be able to
partner with the Kovac uh our
missionaries in Hungary. Lord, thank you
for their desire to reach inside
prisons, uh partnering with Rock of Ages
and not just reaching Hungary, but also
Ukraine as well as Spain and other parts
of uh European countries, Lord. And I do
ask that you'll continue to work with
them. Uh I know uh the European region
is a harder ground uh for the sake of
the gospel, but uh you expect from us to
be faithful wherever we're at
witnessing. And we do praise God for the
opportunity for brother Kovak to uh
share his faith with this individual
that got in the accident. And I do ask
that you'll continue to work in this
man's heart because you promise your
word won't return void. Lord, please
continue to be with his family, with his
kids, as one is at college right now,
and the other one recently helped with
the VBS. And then also, Lord, please be
with Daniel as he's going with his
family to Spain and other parts of the
region. Lord, I ask that you'll be with
Lucas. Uh thank you for repairing the
cleft and uh thank you for it being
successful. And we do ask that you'll
allow him to have a speedy recovery and
be able to get out of the hospital
tonight if it's your will. And uh Lord,
thank you for allowing baby Ariel to be
able to uh leave the hospital in uh in
good health. And uh thank you for not
being too serious. And Lord, please uh
we ask that you'll continue to be with
Brother Adams. Thank you for his
testimony. Thank you for his
faithfulness. I do ask that you'll
continue to be with his uh heart as well
as the fluid around it. And uh Lord,
also please be with the congestion. And
then God, I ask that you'll be with
Brother Eric Sandaval. please uh be with
him as well as his family with uh the
homegoing of uh their grandfather
Oliver. Lord, I ask that you'll continue
to be with them. Give them peace that
passes understanding. Also, God, please
be with brother Powers with this uh
rotator cuff surgery coming Tuesday.
Lord, I ask that you'll guide the the
doctor's hands as they uh work on his uh
on his um arm. And then Lord, please be
with Miss Bren as she's at home right
now recovering from the heart surgery. I
do ask that you'll continue to give her
strength and help her to be able to heal
quickly. And uh Lord, uh please be with
Brother Palmore. I know he's uh
constantly going in and out of the
hospital, but Lord, we know you're the
great physician, and so we lift him up
in prayer because we ask that you'll be
with him and uh help him to regain some
strength and health. Uh be with his uh
with his u overall with the hip surgery
and being able to walk again if it's
your will. And Lord, please um uh help
him to be able to at the end of the week
be able to go to rehab and and uh help
it to be able to be successful and and
help him if it's possible to not have to
keep going back to the hospital. I know
it can be discouraging. And then thank
you Lord for allowing Miss Mason to be
released from the hospital. We do ask
that you'll be with her as she is in
rehab right now and continue to work in
her body. And Lord uh please uh if you
if you will desire uh remove the
autoimmune from her body. uh we know
that she uh lifts you up and praises you
and Lord we just ask that you'll be with
her and then Lord continue to be with uh
Miss Melissa Lap. Lord please allow the
finances to come uh so that they can
continue with the therapy and if it's
your will please allow the disability to
be granted and just continue to work in
her life. And then Lord please be with
Doug with the upcoming surgery for his
bladder. Lord just uh give the doctor's
wisdom there. And then we ask that
you'll be with the Spanish family
conference. Thank you for allowing us to
be able to have uh several conferences
at her church to be able to strengthen
and encourage people that come and visit
uh with fellowship as well as uh being
faithful and continuing in in uh their
current ministries. And Lord, I ask that
you'll give Brother Fernandez wisdom as
well as the Spanish department. And then
Lord, we ask that you'll allow us to be
faithful stewards. Lord, please help us
to continue to be faithful in our tithes
and offerings as well as missions. Thank
you for allowing us to have once again
another great year of uh faith promise
missions. And uh Lord, just help us to
be able to continue to reach the regions
beyond with the gospel. We know you're
coming back soon and we just want to be
found faithful and and honoring to you.
Help us to be able to learn something
tonight so that we can go and change
others and give others hope and peace
and uh just show them the difference
behind why we do what we do. We love
you. Thank you for loving us in your
name. Amen.
>> Let's stand once again. Turn to page
20920.
Like a river, glorious is God's perfect
peace. First and the last verse 209.
Like a river glorious
is God's perfect peace
over all glorious
perfect
[Music]
day.
Every
[Music]
single
[Music]
hearts are fully blessing
[Music]
as he promised.
Perfect peace and rest.
[Music]
Every joy trial
from God
by the son of God.
He makes us in holy
all for us to do.
They who trust in holy
[Music]
holy truth.
Day of Mars
are fully blessing
as he promised,
perfect
and rest.
>> Again, the emphasis tonight is a
upcoming conference for ladies and so be
mindful about that as you give. Brother
Craig's going to come and he'll lead us
as we pray.
>> Father, thank you for letting us be in
your house tonight, Lord. And pray, you
bless the upcoming ladies conference,
Lord, just another week and a half or so
away. And so I pray any father you bless
it. Bless the gift and the giver
tonight, Lord. And help us always be
faithful in our giving, Lord. May lives
be changed, souls be saved, Lord, and
and these ladies that are coming to be
encouraged, Lord. And then bless the
Bible study tonight as well in Christ's
name. Amen.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
Lord.
Heat.
Heat.
[Applause]
[Music]
Turn your song book to page 309. Remain
seated. 309.
We'll sing Our Great Savior. Page 309 in
your song book.
[Music]
Jesus
love a friend for sinners.
Jesus
lover
of my soul.
Friends may fail me before
the sailing.
He my savior
makes me home.
Hallelu,
[Applause]
what a savior.
Hallelu.
What a friend.
saving,
helping,
keeping,
loving.
He is with me to the end. Sing the last
verse. Jesus
I do now. Receive him more than all. In
him I find.
He had granted me forgiveness.
I am his and he is mine.
Hallelu
a savior.
Hallelu.
What a friend.
Saving,
helping,
keeping,
loving.
He is with me through the
right. Very good. Ushers, come if you
will pass out the Bible study for
tonight. I'm going to teach on some
finances this Wednesday and next
Wednesday night. Tonight the subject
matter is how to treat people who owe
you money. How to treat people who owe
you money. And apparently you already
are thinking about how to treat people
who owe you money. And uh next Wednesday
night I'll be speaking on how to treat
people to who you owe money. And so
tonight we'll be now now don't say that
in such a way. You need to come next
Wednesday night also. And we're in Psalm
37 and verse 21. Psalm 37 and verse 21
where the Bible says, "The wicked
borroweth and payth not again, but the
righteous showeth mercy and giveth." And
let's pray. Father, I pray that you'd
bless tonight. I pray that you'd bless
Brother Will as he comes to sing. use
him to prepare our hearts for the Bible
message and from what it sounds like the
challenge tonight. And so, Father, I
pray that you would work in our hearts
and teach us a great truth. And then,
Father, I pray that you would be with
those in other services such as our
Spanish department tonight, our
children's ministry tonight. Pray that
you will use those that's giving the
lesson uh and the challenge tonight uh
to be able to be used of you. And Lord,
we thank you for it in Jesus name. Amen.
[Music]
He didn't bring an army
to help him on his way.
He didn't bring an angel
to praise him night and day.
day. He didn't bring one piece of gold
to buy some food to eat.
Instead, he turned, laid it all down
at his father's feet.
He left it all
to rescue me.
[Music]
He left it all
to die on Calary.
He left it all.
Not one comfort did he bring, not his
gold, not his crown, not 10,000
bowing down, not one piece of jasper
wall. He left it all.
this man they're crucifying.
They say that he's a king,
but judging from the clothes that he
wears,
he doesn't own a thing.
But little did they know that day as his
blood came streaming down
he owned the sun, the stars and the
moon.
He even owned the ground.
He left it all
to rescue me.
He left it all
to die on Calary.
He left it all.
[Music]
Not one comfort did he bring.
Not his robe, not his crown, not 10,000
bowing down, not one piece of jasper
wall. He left it all.
Not his robe, not his crown, not 10,000
bowing down, not one piece of jasper
wall. He left it all.
[Applause]
All right. Excellent job. Appreciate
that, brother Will. Well, let's speak on
the subject matter tonight on how to
treat people who owe you money. Now,
before I get into this, I want to I want
to just advertise a little bit. Oftent
times when somebody will come to my
office for counseling, I'll give them
Bible studies to read or I'll give them
a Bible study lesson to listen to. And
so, there is a huge amount that you have
as your resource. If you have a question
uh then go of course to the media uh on
on the website the media and go down if
you will of course to the subject matter
that you want such as in this series you
could be able to help people with just
the subjects that we have taught here in
this series. We've taught the importance
of developing your Christlike people
skills. That's a good one to help
people. Another one is how Jesus uh if
you will modeled the perfect people
skills. Uh how to predetermine or
predetermine how you treat people.
Predetermine. How do you do that? We've
talked about the lack of people skills,
how it leads to disaster. Then we talked
about using good people skills in your
way of communication.
We've talked about of course working
with people when they make a mistake.
How do you do that? how to treat
different church members, how to treat
people that you disagree with. We've
taught about how to respond to your
critics. We've taught about how to help
others overcome the boredom of church.
We've taught about how to treat people
that annoy you, how to treat people as
you travel, and how to treat people who
leave the church. There's a lot of good
principles there that you could be able
to not just uh help yourself, but
others. Boy, if you go to that website,
you'll see uh uh lessons that we taught
on the family, lessons we taught on
finances, when to buy a house, when not
to buy a house, when to buy a car, when
not to buy a car, how to invest your
money for the future. There's just so
many things that you'll find there that
I would encourage you to be able to
visit. And most of those are in your
Wednesday night Bible study. Now,
tonight, the Bible does say over in
Psalm 37:21, the Bible says, "The wicked
borroweth." The Bible says, "And payth
not again. But the righteous showeth
mercy and giveith." So we understand
this that a person that is going to be
able to help somebody that borrows from
them, you're going to have to have a a
degree or a depth of love, a degree or a
depth of wisdom, a degree or a depth of
discernment to be able to know what to
do. Let me give you some notes tonight
that helps us to understand. principles
on how to be able to treat people that
owe you money. Statement number one,
God's principles on lending and
borrowing. God's principles on lending
and borrowing. What does the Bible teach
about that? Well, lending uh should uh
should not be, if you would please,
oppressive. What do I mean by
oppressive? Well, over in the book of
Exodus 22:2, the Bible says, "If thou
lend," it says, "money to any of my
people that is poor by thee." Now, think
about that. Poor by thee. Okay, what
does that mean? Well, it says, uh, thou
shalt be, it says to him, a user. And it
says, neither shalt thou lay, it says
himucery. Now, what does that mean? What
does those two words mean? Well, you
think about this. You know the act of
lending if you should be should be an
act of kindness not an act of greed. The
meaning of the word uh user or usery
simply means this. The user is one that
lends money with the intent of charging
interest. Uh you know especially uh that
which is unfair or in in an excess rate.
In the Old Testament uh uses a Hebrew
word it means to bite. Means to bite. So
when a person uh gives money with the
intention of drawing interest off of
that to bite someone, oftentimes it
causes them to go into that which is a
form of bondage or slavery. Usery means
this. It means the interest itself
charged on the money. It's talking about
the money that has been lent. Of course,
in biblical times, uh the word
especially simply means this, taking
advantage of that person that is poor by
demanding extra payments beyond the
principle. Uh if you would please, often
uh taxing them or trapping them into a
form of debt. And so we have to be
careful how and if and when we loan
money. The book of Proverbs chapter 19
and verse 17 talks about this. The Bible
says, "He that hath pity," it says,
"upon the poor lendeth onto the Lord
that which he hath given." It says,
"Will he pay that again?" All right.
Now, now think about this. Okay? So,
some somebody takes and they borrow
money from you. How do you look at that?
How do you view that? Somebody borrows
something. Well, let's not say money.
Let's say somebody borrows a rake or
somebody borrows your tractor or
somebody borrows your vehicle. Okay? How
do you how do you view that? Well, the
Bible says in the book of Proverbsap
11:2, the Bible says, "The liberal sh
soul shall be made fat and he that
waterth shall listen to it be watered
also himself." Okay. Well, it kind of
goes along with that verse, doesn't it
not? The Bible says uh that uh as a man
seweth, that shall he also reap. Now,
the bar of the words is they should be
responsible. They should repay, if you
would please, responsibly. they should
do that. I'm going to tell you, not
everybody that borrows something from
you does repay it.
>> All right. So, how do you view these
things perspectively? Well, the Bible
says in Psalm 37 and verse 21, the Bible
says, "The wicked borroweth and payth
not again." It says, "But the righteous,
it says, showeth mercy and giveth." So,
there is the responsibility of the
borrower to honor his commitment, her
commitment of that which is repaying
what they did borrow. The Bible says in
the book of Romans chapter 13:8, the
Bible says, "Owe no man anything." owe
no man anything. But the Bible says,
"But to uh love one another, for he that
loveth," it says another hath fulfilled
the law. All right? So you got to be
careful that when you loan to someone,
it doesn't change the stature of how you
feel about them. uh Proverbs chapter 22
and verse one, the Bible says, "A good
name is rather to be chosen than great
riches and loving favor rather than
silver and gold." So what do you do?
Well, show mercy and hardship. Show
mercy and hardship. Somebody borrows
something from you and now all of a
sudden they have hit a hardship in their
life. be careful that you do not um
upsert your authority over them so much
that it destroys them. You know the
Bible says over in Luke chapter 6 in
verse 34 the Bible says and if ye lend
to them it says to whom uh ye have or ye
hope to receive. It says wh what what
what thank have ye. Okay. Now think
about this. For sinners also lend to
sinners uh to receive as much again. So
what is the purpose of lending? I is the
person uh needing it you have sympathy
on and then you lend them something with
the only hope that they will repay you.
I mean is that it? And are you going to
charge interest so with the only hope
that they will pay you and you will gain
over their poverty or over their
problem? Is that the purpose of it? Or
are you lending, if you would please,
simply because uh you care about that
person and if they pay it, great. If
they repay it, great. If they don't
repay it, great. Does it hurt your
relationship when you lend something to
someone? Uh Luke chapter 6 and verse 35,
the Bible says, "But uh love, it says uh
ye your enemies and do good." It says,
"And linen," listen to it says, "Hoping
for nothing again."
So, you got to be careful going into it
with an attitude of, okay, if if I lend
to them and they do repay it, and they
should.
Did you get what I said?
>> And they should, as an honest Christian,
they should. As a responsible human
being, they should.
>> Okay. But I'm going to ask you
something. What if they don't?
>> Does that cause you to have an issue in
your heart with them? Well, if it does
cause you to have an issue in your heart
with them, maybe you should not have
lent it to them for the beginning.
>> All right. And so the Bible says here,
it says, "And your reward shall be
great." It says, "And ye shall uh be the
children of the highest." It says, "For
uh he is is kind onto uh the
unthankful." Did you get it? He is kind
onto the unthankful. Oh, here it is. And
to the evil. He says now you I just want
you to know that you if you gave
something or somebody took something
from you that belongs to you. Well then
you know are you going to be kind to
them? He is kind onto them that took
from him. Okay. You know sometimes
forgiveness of a debt reflects a
Christlike compassion.
Now now you got to be careful. Somebody
borrows something from you and you are
holding it over their head. It doesn't
sound to me like that is a Christlike
compassion. Uh Matthew chapter 5 and
verse 7 the Bible says blessed are the
merciful for they shall obtain mercy.
Hebrews chapter 13 and verse two the
Bible says and be not forgetful. It says
now think about this to entertain
strangers for whereby some have listen
to it entertained angels unawares.
You just never know. Uh the person that
you're withholding your grace uh from
might be an angel unawares. So statement
number one, God's principle of lending
and borrowing. Statement number two,
biblical examples of uh doing it right.
Biblical examples of doing it right. You
know, Nehemiah of course gives that
example. Nehemiah 5:es 1-13. Nehemiah
chapter 5 explicitly in verse 11 the
Bible says restore it says I pray you it
says to them it says even this day their
lands their vineyards their uh uh olive
yards if you would their houses it says
and also a hundred that says part of the
money other words all of the money it
says and of the corn and of the wine and
of the oil it says that ye it said exact
that says of them or that ye take of
them all right so Nehemiah He was a
perfect example of justice, compassion,
but yet not exploitation, not going
above but exact the exact amount. You
know Jesus in the parable of the good
Samaritan Luke 10:30 through37 verse 35
the Bible says on the marorrow it says
when he departed he took it says out two
pence and gave them it says to the host
and saith unto them it says to take care
of him. Now talking about the Samaritan
if you would please. He said I want you
to take care of him. He says and and he
says and whatsoever spendest more he
says when I come he says I I'll repay it
I'll repay it I'll repay thee all right
so what's he saying he said I can be
able to take care of it okay so other
words if you suffer the loss that's okay
I'll take care of it I'll take care of
it so do we help somebody knowing that
there is the possibility we might suffer
loss when you let somebody borrow your
push mower
are you letting them borrow it with the
idea that you might suffer for lost.
They might run over a piece of metal and
dent out all those if you would please
blades. Are are you aware of that? You
know, if you let somebody borrow your
truck if you would please and uh and
they don't how to change gears and they
strip it all out. How are you feeling
about that? By the way, does that
irritate you just by me surely
mentioning it?
Okay. Be careful who you let borrow
things from if you're not capable of
being able to act Christlike if
something does happen. Okay, you think
about this. There was the year of
Jubilee, of course, recorded in
Leviticus chapter 25. It talks about the
50th year there uh that they were uh
proclaimed the 50th year that the
inhabitants of course things would be
returned to them, the possessions and
all that the family had. So, it's a
picture of mercy. It's a picture of
release. It's a picture of a of fresh
beginnings. So God's principle on
lending and borrowing. Then there's the
biblical examples of doing it right.
What about historical examples of doing
it right? Historical you people that you
know Americans if you would. There's
Abraham Lincoln. Of course he was known
for his integrity. You know he ran a
small store and of course you realize
this the store that he ran if you'll do
a history study on it. It failed
miserably. But he was a man of
integrity. He was a man of honesty. uh
recorded in ledger notes that he'd
walked several miles. One time he walked
several miles just to return some
pennies because he mistakably
overcharged a customer. That's
integrity, you know. Uh we need to be
very very fair with our finances. He
said this one time. He said, "I'm not
bound to win. I'm not bound to win. I am
bound to be true." Another statement he
said was this. Character is like the
tree and reputation is its shadow. The
shadow is what others think about you.
The tree is who you really are. Okay?
And so you understand that uh there
there is people that have a view of you.
Well, not why why not give them a good
view? Why not cast a good shadow? George
Mueller of course uh he was known for
his orphanages. He cared for thousands
of orphans, you know, uh he would do it
through loans. He would do it through
donations, but he always was very
faithful to repay. If he borrowed money,
and he did, he was always very faithful
to repay. He was very honest. He was a
very trustworthy type of individual. He
said this. He said, "The beginning of
anxiety is the end of faith, and the
beginning of true faith is the end of
anxiety."
So, you know, he knew what it was to be
able to trust God. You know, uh, of
course, it was Hudson Taylor that said
about Muer's faith, and I quote, he
said, "God's work done in God's way, uh,
shall never lack God's supply." And then
understatement, George Mueller, you
know, he proved that. Okay. John Wesley,
John Wesley said, uh, gain all that you
can, save all that you can, and then
give all that you can. He also said
this. He said uh uh not how much of
watch this very carefully. I put this
one in your notes. It's it's not how
much of uh my money will I give God, but
it's how much of God's money will I keep
for myself. That's very true, isn't it?
Because it all it all belongs to God.
>> You would not have a shirt on your back.
You would not have shoes on your feet if
it wasn't for God.
Even the poorest person in the world
ought to be thanking God for that which
God has entrusted to their care. All
right? So, you know, uh you see money
and you often times see money only as
that which is being a good steward, but
really we're a good steward over
everything that God has allowed us the
privilege to be able to have. You get up
in the morning, you take a breath. Boy,
God, thank you for today. I get to take
a breath for you. I want to make sure
that breathing all day long will honor
you. Oh, you say, "Oh, that's
ridiculous, preacher." I think the
closer you get to him, the more he
honors you.
>> Statement number one, I said God's
principles on lending and borrowing.
Statement number two, biblical examples
of doing it right. Statement number
three, historical examples of doing it
right. Well, what about this? What about
statement number four, examples of doing
it wrong? You think we could find some
examples of people doing it wrong? What
do you do with people that owe you
money? Examples of people that's doing
it or has done it wrong. There's the
unmerciful servant found in the book of
Matthew chapter 18 23-35.
You'll see this that that that same
servant went out, the Bible says, and
found his fellow servants which owed him
a 100 pence and laid hands on him and
and took him, it says, by the throat,
saying, "Pay me." It says, "That thou
owest." All right. So here here's a guy
I think you could probably agree
probably didn't have a good attitude
about it.
>> So he goes out this guy owes him money
and grabs him by the throat and he says
you pay me. The book of Matthew 18:34
the Bible says and the Lord was wroth
and delivered unto him. The Bible says
to the tormentors delivered him onto the
tormentors till uh he should pay all
that was due to him. Okay. And so again,
as a man seweth, that shall we also
reap? You you say, "But I only owe that
person $10."
Okay. But do you want somebody to
forgive you of that which you owe
someone else?
Then maybe you ought to forgive that one
of the $10. Now, wait a minute. Let's
let's get it straight. Should that
person pay you? Yes. We're not talking
about what they should do. We'll talk
about that next week.
We're talking about what you should do.
What if that person doesn't pay you
every time you see them? Oh, I I've I've
had relatives that I've loan them tens
of thousands of dollars. And can I tell
you I'm okay with that. If they pay it,
God bless them. If they don't pay it,
God bless them. It's not going to change
my spirit towards them. It's not going
to change my demeanor towards them. It's
not going to change my love towards
them. It's not going to change my intent
towards them. Now, can I tell you, you
have to be very, very careful to protect
your spirit. What is what is what is
hurting your spirit?
If somebody owes you something, can you
still go up and smile at them and shake
their hand, say, "I'm glad to see you."
Or is it just tearing you up like cancer
on the inside?
If it's tearing you up like cancer on
the inside, let me tell you who it's
hurting the worst.
>> See, every time you see them drinking a
cup of coffee, you say, "What are they
doing?" drinking my coffee.
Every time you see them driving down the
road, you're saying, "What are they
doing driving my car?"
Every time you see them in the store and
they're buying a banana, you say, "What
are they doing buying my banana?"
Okay, now you're going to have to get
over that because here's what's going to
happen inside of you. It's tearing you
up while that other person is still
enjoying eating the banana,
driving the car.
You see what I'm saying? You know, we we
have to understand that there's there's
examples of people, if you would please,
that simply just don't do it right. You
know, James chapter 2 and verse 13, the
Bible says, "For he shall have judgment
without mercy." The Bible says, "And it
showed no mercy." So what happens when
you don't show mercy? There's going to
come a day when you're going to want
mercy. And guess what? You're not going
to get it. Again, as a man seweth, that
shall he also reap. And mercy says,
"Rejoiceth against judgment." Matthew 5
and verse 7, the Bible says, "Blessed
are the merciful." Listen to it now. The
merciful. The Bible says, "For they
shall obtain mercy."
Oh, okay. Watch this. You ready? So, you
walk into a room and everybody's sad.
Everybody's sad. Everybody's sad. I
mean, they got poochy lip disease. Their
bottom lip is sanging down between their
two big toes. They can't see where
they're supposed to take their next
step. I mean, it is sad day in the room.
Here's what you can do. You can walk in
the room and let everybody in the room
control your spirit. Or you can walk in
the room and try to change everybody
else's spirit. There's two different
types of people. There are people that
live according to everybody else and
there's people that try to help others
to live according to them. You have to
decide that you're going to be the them
and not the everybody else. You have to
decide that life is worth living and if
it's worth living, you might as well
enjoy it.
>> You have to decide that God gave you one
life.
>> Oh, come on.
CT study said only one life uh will soon
be passed and only what's done for
Christ will last. Amen.
>> So, you might as well do something.
>> You might as well just pick yourself up
and just decide, okay, I'm not going to
live in misery the rest of the days of
my life because God is bigger than that.
>> God is more powerful than that. God can
help me more than that. And he certainly
can. All right. You think about this. Of
course, there's the greedy money uh
money lenders. The greedy money lenders.
Of course, we saw that there in the day
of Nehemiah. Nehemiah chapter 5 and
verse 5. The Bible says uh uh ye now it
says it says our flesh is as the flesh
of our brethren. Our children is their
children. And though it says we bring it
says into bondage our sons and our
daughters to be servants. It says
neither is it in our power to redeem
them. It says for other men have watch
it our lands and vineyards. Okay. Don't
put yourself in a place where you pass
your, if you would please, debt on to
your children. Watch it or your spirit
onto your children.
>> Okay? Your children watch you. They
watch you in church. They watch you as
you walk down the hallway. They watch
you as you drive your vehicle. They
watch you as you eat your Cheerios. They
watch you. Make sure you set a good
representation
of the Lord that you say so well that
you know. Think about the historical
example if you would please. Of course,
if you just think about uh the medieval
type of times if you would please, the
middle ages if you would please, the
many uh money lenders that was back in
those days, they would charge a crushing
type of interest. Now, they would do
that purposely
because they wanted people to be
destroyed. They wanted to take the
family's children into slavery. They
wanted to be able to use them for their
own profit. Okay? And that's an unjust
gain. And that's not good. Notice
statement number five. Okay? Statement
number five. There's practical
principles for Christians today. Now,
what are the practical principles for
Christians today? What are practical
principles? You and I, somebody owes us
money. What are some practical
principles that you can put into your
life to protect your spirit and to
protect that which is the well-being of
your family? What can you do? Statement
number one, uh be careful about lending.
Be careful about lending. Okay. The
Bible talks about in book of Proverbs
chapter 22:7, the Bible says the rich
ruleth over the poor and the borrower,
watch this carefully, is servant to the
lender. So, be careful about lending.
You know, by the way, you be careful
about cosigning for people. Co-signing
for people. What you're saying when you
cosign for somebody, here's what you're
saying. You're saying if they fail to
meet that debt that you're standing
instead for them. Other words, if they
fail to meet the debt, you'll pay it for
them.
>> Now, that will ruin your credit. If you
co-sign for somebody that doesn't have
character, by the way, uh if if you
cosign for somebody, say to get a car,
but yet you know they don't have good
character, but you're going to do it
anyway because you've got that big
heart. You've got that caring heart.
This is a friend. This is a relative.
This is somebody you love. And then you
co-sign for them. And then all of a
sudden, they're lazy. And you knew they
were lazy to begin with. It wasn't all
of a sudden. It's just that's who they
are. And so they're lazy and they don't
go out and they don't make the payment.
Well, guess what? It's going to hurt
your credit. Next time you go to buy a
car, it's going to come up on your
credit line. You won't be buying a car
because you cared so much. Do not let
your heart get in front of your common
sense.
>> Amen.
>> Okay. So, here's what we understand. We
understand this. Be careful about
lending. You know, lend only what you're
willing to lose.
Listen to this. I'm not done. Uh,
>> lend only to what you're willing to lose
without bitterness.
>> Lend only to what you're willing to lose
without bitterness.
Okay? Next time you lend something and
it's walking out the door,
kiss it goodbye.
Now, if you're not willing to kiss it
goodbye, then don't lend it.
>> Then don't lend it. You know, you can be
honest. You don't have to hurt people's
feeling. You know, you can be tactful in
what you say. Somebody comes up and
says, "Can I borrow?" You don't have to
say, "No, I don't trust you."
You could say, "No, I can't do that
right now."
because later on, you know, you you may
have a heart change about it,
you know, in a good way because you're
willing to be able to say goodbye.
But you be careful, be careful about the
the preface that you have in your heart
before you start lending. Proverbs
chapter 22 and verse three, the Bible
says, "A prudent man foreseeth the
evil." Other words, you know, you're
prudent, so you say, "Ah, this might not
be a good idea. thought about this might
not be a good idea. All right. And then
he says, "And he hideth himself." All
right. Think about this. It says, "But
the simple," it says, "Pass on and are
punished." How do you get punished if
you're simple? Simple. What's that mean?
Simple-minded, childlike. Okay. So, how
do you get punished? Well, you know,
children don't make wise decisions.
Children don't research things. They
just do. And often times because they
just do, they get punished because of
the simplicity.
All right? Uh so what do you do? Seek
seek fairness,
not revenge. How do you do that? Well,
listen to it. Uh Proverbs or excuse me,
uh uh the book of Romans 12 and verse
17. The Bible says, "Recompense." It
says to no man evil for evil. It says,
"Provide things honest." It says, "In
the sight of all men." So what you want
to do is you want to be honest, right?
Proverbs chapter 20 22 the Bible says
say not thou says I will recompense evil
it says but but wait on the Lord and uh
watch it and he shall save thee okay so
you have a deadline you say okay I I'll
tell you what I I will let you borrow
this sum of money using the sum of money
as an illustration I'll let you borrow
this sum of money but I need you to
repay it here
okay should you expect them to repay it?
Yes. Are they responsible to repay it?
Yes. Should you hold them accountable
for repaying it? Yes. Should you have
attitude if they don't repay it? No.
>> Okay. Don't you need to protect your
spirit.
>> You God still expects you to be right
with him.
God still expects you to do right
regardless.
Okay. So now all of a sudden this person
All right. Now so so I I my my dear wife
and I we own rental property. Rental
property. Okay. Big heart. I got a big
heart. Big heart. Big heart. Matter of
fact, my heart was bigger than my body.
Big heart.
So, I knew that I could not be the
property manager
because if they were late, I'd say, "Oh,
God bless you." Then I'd come into my
wife and say, "What are we going to do?
I can do it." Yeah. Because big heart.
All right. So, when we own properties,
when we were in evangelism, I hired a
property manager. You say, "Why?"
Because they don't have a heart.
>> Amen.
So the property manager would say,
"Okay, you know, I I you know, you you
pay on this date and for every every uh
day that you're late, it's $25
additional dollars every day you're
late." Okay? Now, that was their policy.
You know, they did that. Okay? Uh but by
the way, if somebody paid, you know, I
thank the Lord for that. If somebody
didn't pay, I didn't worry about that
because somebody else was taking care of
that.
Now, but for me, I had to do something
like that as a businessman because if I
didn't do something like that, everybody
that I ever rented to would have rent
free every month
because that's that's me. They would
say, "Oh, you know, I can't I can't pay
because I had to feed the cat." Oh, I'm
so sorry for your cat.
If it was me, I'd shoot the cat, but no.
>> No, I can't say that because some of you
love your cats. Okay. You you'd rather
shoot your dog. Okay. But but there is
the practical principles of Christian.
I'm talking about how the attitude is
with you. All right. So So seek
fairness, not revenge. Not revenge.
Don't seek revenge. You know, be be not
overcome of evil, but overcome evil with
good.
>> Somebody who was evil to you, can you
still love them? Do you still pray for
them? Can you shake their hand in the
supermarket? Can you do that? Okay.
Balance accountability with compassion.
Balance accountability with compassion.
Listen to it. Matthew chapter 6 and
verse14. The Bible says uh for if you
forgive men their trespasses, your
heavenly father will for will also
forgive you. That's a pretty good
trade-off.
Listen to it. Galatians chapter 6 and
verse one. Brethren, if a man be
overtaken in fault, you which are
spiritual, restore such a one in the
spirit of meekness, considering thyself,
less, it says, thou also be tempted.
Okay? So, if they can if they can pay,
hold them accountable. Hold them
accountable. We're talking about
somebody borrow something from you
personally. If they can pay, hold them
accountable. If they cannot pay,
consider mercy.
Consider forgiveness. And if you would
please extend the time.
Now again, you have to decide where
you're going to draw these lines. You
you know this. We were talking about
this somewhere today with somebody. You
know, uh I think one of the staff guys
was talking to me. People draw their
lines differently in different places.
Is that right? By the way, you don't
draw the same line for one kid, you draw
a line for another kid. It's not because
you're compromising for one kid. You're
trying to help that one child. Now, you
still have the same rules.
Don't get me wrong. You don't throw the
rules out for one kid, have them all for
another kid. Don't do that. You still
have the same when when our kids were
growing up, you know, we uh we had rules
that was on the refrigerator.
Now,
such as, you know, you did this and
here's the punishment. You did this,
here's the punishment. you did this,
here's my Our kids would walk in front
of the refrigerator, look at it, and
say, "Okay, is the is is the is the
wrongdoing is it worth the punishment or
whatever?" You know what I'm saying?
Okay, I just gave some parents some
ideas and you're shaking your head and
your eyes are big and you're smiling,
your kid sitting right in front of you
shaking the head like this. Okay? You
know, if you can pay, then if they can
pay, then you hold them accountable. If
they cannot, consider consider
forgiveness and extended mercy and
grace. Okay. Uh, doing it right is
compassion, is fairness and mercy. Doing
it wrong is greed,
is that which is harshness, is
hypocrisy. Okay? So, protect your
testimony. Last point, think about this.
Protect your testimony. Matthew chapter
7 and verse two, the Bible says, "For
uh, with what judgment you judge, you
shall be judged, and with what uh, it
says measure, it says ye meet." Other
words, how you're measuring it, it shall
be measured to you again. So your
reputation, DL Moody said this, your
reputation is what men say about you.
Your character is what God knows about
you. Okay? You know, how you treat
someone is uh is of course in a
financial struggle, you know, that
reflects Christ. You know, you want to
treat them decently. Be firm. Don't be
harsh. Remember, God forgave. And so you
also need to forgive when it comes down
to that. Okay? Now, we're talking about
things that's more personal to you,
okay? More personal to you. Okay? You,
you know, talk about the rake, you talk
about the hammer, you talk about the
axe, you talk about the car, you talk
about uh whatever, whatever, whatever.
You be very careful. The most important
thing you can do is to act in such a way
that does not destroy your spirit.
does not destroy your spirit. Okay. Um,
okay. Some of your grandparents, you
have little kids that come over. They're
called grandkids.
If you don't want the grandkid to play
with that expensive little whatever on
the bottom shelf, move it to the top
shelf.
Use sense.
Use sense. Okay. The same thing, you
know, some things ought to be. Stay with
me. Something, Stay with me. Some things
ought to be out of reach that you do not
allow people to reach into to get. You
love your car. Might not be wise to let
a teenager drive your car that just got
his driver's license by going around the
block one week.
Common sense.
Okay. But if you're going to allow
somebody, you know, we we have we've
had, you know, my wife and I in our
past, you know, we we've had employees,
we've had all sorts of stuff. If if even
with our own children, if something if
something if something became broke,
you know, we have employees here that
work for us here, but if something
becomes broke, I'm concerned more about
the person than I am the item that got
broke.
you know, some if somebody falls or
something, I don't say, you know, how's
the ladder?
I don't do that.
If somebody mistakably breaks a window,
I don't say, "How's the window?"
I say, "How are you? You okay?"
Then I say, "How's the window?"
I'm simply saying this. I'm saying make
sure that you care more about the person
than the item
or the money or whatever that they
borrowed. And that keeps you in good
relationship with them. Keeps you in
good relationship with them.
I could give you illustration after
illustration, but I think you got it.
Father, I pray that you'd bless tonight.
Thank you for church. Lord, how is it
that we should treat people
that owe us money or that owe us items?
Father, help us to obey Bible truth.
Help us to put practical application to
it. And Father, we'll thank you for it
in Jesus name. Amen. You say, "Preacher,
I'm here tonight. I do not know Christ
as my savior. And I want to I want to I
want to be saved. I want to know it.
Please pray for me. Here's my hand. I'm
not sure I'm saved. I certainly do not
know it. Please pray for me. Here's my
hand. Here's my hand.
Preacher, I want you to pray for me
because I'll be honest with you, I
needed the lesson. I got value out of
the lesson. I got some things I've
learned from the lesson. I got some
things I need to work on that I saw
tonight. Please pray for me. Here's my
hand. Would you raise your hand? Good.
Good. God bless you. Let's all stand,
please. Heads are bowed, eyes are
closed. Father, you saw the hands.
Precious people tonight. Help us to
respond accordingly to how you spoke to
our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Kenny
begins to play. If you'd like to visit
an altar, you're welcome to do so.
[Music]
What about you tonight? What about you?
How you going to treat people?
How you going to treat people
that owe you money? How you going to
treat people?
Now, what about you?
What about you?
[Music]
take as long as you need to to pray
because I know some of this stuff goes
deep. It's not it's not surface. I got
it. I understand. Believe me, I
understand. Been there, done that. Got
the t-shirt.
So, I know some of it goes deep.
[Music]
But you have to take care of it. Only
you can. Only you can.
[Music]
Thank you so much. Be seated for just a
moment. This is uh Larry Hoffman. And I
appreciate, of course, Brother Hoffman
so very much, you know, and and we've
become friends. He's visited our church
for some time now and we met my office
just the other day and we talked about
membership and so he's transferring his
membership from a sister church and we
appreciate him so very very much and so
he's joining our church tonight. If you
would rejoice with brother Larry
Hoffman, would you let it be known by
saying a hearty amen?
>> Amen.
>> We're so glad that you're here. Thank
you so much and love you and uh you
you'll get to know him. He's an
outstanding gentleman and what a
blessing he is. And so in just a little
bit we'll dismiss brother Craig if you
will assist Brother Larry out to the uh
lobby area. Go by and shake his hand.
Thank him for becoming a member here.
We're so excited about that. What a
blessing that is. And so God bless you.
Don't forget also uh if you want to get
sign up cards, please get signup cards
and sign some more people up to come.
You say, "Ah, but it is Sunday." Yeah,
but when people sign up for something,
they have a tendency to want to follow
through. Okay. And so you you try and
sign up as many people as you can and
then folks when people come on Sunday,
you be friendly, okay? You smile, you
shake a hand, you extend, if you would
please, a good greeting and stuff like
that. Please don't forget though uh to
bring the stuff that you would uh ask to
bring and you can bring it early over to
the church kitchen area and there will
be somebody to receive it over there and
then we'll have a great time a great
time of fellowship after church and be a
blessing. You'll enjoy it immensely and
so try and come and stay after church
for a little bit. The chicken is going
to be absolutely delicious.
>> Fingerlicking
good. I'm talking about bone sucking
good. I'm talking about it's going to
make your chops just water, right? And
so you come be a part of that if you
would. If you like to uh dress up, you
certainly may do that. There is more
flyers back there. A matter of fact, if
you one of you ushers can put them out
there on the table that way that little
area doesn't get congested. But if you
like to get more flyers to pass out and
then Saturday all in Saturday, we like
for you to come, you know, uh go out
for, you know, about an hour or so, you
know, pass out, introduce yourself to
some people, put that smile on, and uh
and just invite people to come to
church. That would be great. And you'll
enjoy that, too. That's at 10 o'clock on
Saturday. Let's all stand. Thank you so
much. And brother Larry, if you'll join
Brother Craig right here, you gentlemen
will walk out that way. And uh All
right. And what do we have?
>> Sign up list.
>> Sign up list. Yes. Thank you, brother
Bell. Don't forget the signup list that
we announced out here on the table. It's
out here on the table. Other words, if
you signed up one person, your name's
going to be out there. And the person
you signed up, you signed up 150 people,
your name is going to be out there.
There's going to be all 150 you signed
up. That way you can call them on
Saturday. Say, "Hey, just a friendly
reminder. Uh we got a just a a great day
on Sunday. Just a friendly reminder. We
want you to still come." Okay. I'm
looking forward to seeing you. Okay. And
uh and get, you know, of course them
excited about coming on Sunday. Okay.
All right. Good. God bless you. We'll
sing our way out.
>> We'll sing our program.
>> Just give me the old paths.
Those paths of yesterday year where the
old time preaching rock holy ghost
conviction and soul waiting with a tear.
You can have your own opinion
interpretation too living like
[Music]
I'll take the king and the blood of
Jesus Christ and church running
everywhere.
How big the king
is
and Jesus is running everywhere.
[Applause]
[Music]